So in the last lesson, we've incorporated a progress bar into our design and we've figured out how we
can change the amount of progress that shows by updating a number that, essentially, it represents a percentage
from zero to 100. And that number has a data type of a Float,
so it's a floating point. And one 1.0 is completion,
so 100 percent. 0.0 is the starting point,
so it's zero percent.
Now, we know that we've managed to get the seconds remaining variable to reduce itself by 1 every time.
But we're still a little bit far from what we want which is for the progressBar to show the amount
of time that's left. So in order to solve this we have to think about it logically
and so here's what we know so far.
We're going to need a percentage that's expressed as a floating point or decimal number.
So, for example, 56 percent would be naught .56,
And we need that percentage to increase from 0.0 to 1.0 representing how far
along our egg is,
so from just put into the pan all the way to finished boiling, at least for the chosen hardness.
Now, the next thing we know is that we have a different amount of time to count down depending on which
egg hardness was selected.
So soft eggs require a total of 300 seconds, hard eggs require 720.
Now, we also have a function called updateTime that can do something every second because it gets called
by our timer which ticks every second and triggers update time.
So at the moment, we've got this variable code Seconds Remaining which basically shrinks by one every
second and we're printing it out, but we can't really use it directly in our progress bar.
So what if we thought about it the other way?
What if instead of having a second remaining, we had something called Seconds Passed, and we look at how
Seconds Passed varies compared to the total amount of time that the particular egg hardness requires.
So then we can track our progress from zero to 90 depending on how many Seconds Passed out of the Total
Time.
So effectively, we can express this as an equation.
We could say that the percentageProgress is equal to the seconds that have passed, divided by the total
amount of time that the egg requires. Applying that logic to our code then involves a couple of things.
Firstly, I'm going to delete this line of code because we don't need it.
We're not updating the progressBar in the IBAction.
And the second thing is that notice I've still got these quick and easy-to-test seconds 3, 4, and
7, and I'm not going to change this until the very end when we are actually ready to wait 5 minutes
for our egg to be done.
So at the moment, we have all secondsRemaining
and I'm actually going to delete this variable and replace it with two others.
One is totalTime, which I'll set to zero, and another is the secondsPassed.
So this secondsPassed, unlike secondsRemaining, is actually going to go up. So it's gonna go from zero
to 1 to 2, whereas secondsRemaining counted down from the total amount of time.
So the place where we need to set the total amount of time for our egg is, of course, here.
So instead of setting secondsRemaining, the total amount of time is going to be based on the hardness
that's selected,
so it's either going to be 3, 4, or 7. And then we need to have this secondsPassed variable increase
by 1 every single second.
So instead of minus equals, we changed that to plus equals.
So now secondsPassed is gonna go from zero to 1 to
2 every time
updateTimer is called which is every 1 second.
So now I'm going to delete this print statement which uses that old secondsRemaining, and instead of
checking for whether secondsRemaining is greater than zero,
I'm going to check to see if the secondsPassed is less than the total amount of time.
So let's say that we selected the Soft egg in our button selection.
So the total amount of time gets set to 3 and the first time updateTimer gets called, secondPassed
is zero,
totalTime is 3..
So zero is less than 3 and, therefore, secondsPassed gets increased by 1, and then the next time, and
then the next time, until secondsPassed is equal to 3. At which point, it's no longer less than totalTime,
At which point, our egg is done.
So this "if" statement is the place where we're going to update our percentage progress.
So just before we increase it, we're going to create a new constant code percentageProgress and we're
going to set it equal to the secondsPassed divided by the total amount of time. And so now we have this
thing called percentageProgress and we're going to set that as the progressBar's progress property.
So we'll set that equal to percentageProgress.
Now, we're going to have an error there because it says that the percentage progress has a data type
of a whole number,
but the progressBar.progress needs a floating point number.
And we can verify this by, again, holding down option and clicking on that percentageProgress is, in fact,
an integer.
So how can we convert an integer into a float?
Well, Xcode seems to know. It says, "Well, why don't you wrap your percentageProgress inside a float?"
So let's try it and you'll see that Xcode doesn't always know what it's doing.
So if we click fix and we try to run our code and we press on a button, you can see that it goes straight
down to zero.
In fact, our progressBar doesn't do anything other than just make the progress go down to zero.
So what's going on here?
Well, this is a bug in our code. And like the olden days where the computers would get a moth stuck in
it and some bit of circuit won't work, in modern days, we don't have to worry about moths so much, but
we do have to worry about ourselves.
We are our own greatest enemies and are fallacies and logic leads to our code-breaking and not working.
In the next lesson,
we've got a five-step process.
Again, five steps.
I really like the number five.
And it's a five-step process for you to figure out how to debug any problem you come across.
So join me on the next lesson where we're going to fix this.